README.md, before:

# Clawdbot Railway Template (1‑click deploy)

This repo packages **Clawdbot** for Railway with a small **/setup** web wizard so users can deploy and onboard **without running any commands**.

## What you get

- **Clawdbot Gateway + Control UI** (served at `/` and `/clawdbot`)
- A friendly **Setup Wizard** at `/setup` (protected by a password)
- Persistent state via **Railway Volume** (so config/credentials/memory survive redeploys)
- One-click **Export backup** (so users can migrate off Railway later)

## How it works (high level)

- The container runs a wrapper web server.
- The wrapper protects `/setup` with `SETUP_PASSWORD`.
- During setup, the wrapper runs `clawdbot onboard --non-interactive ...` inside the container, writes state to the volume, and then starts the gateway.
- After setup, **`/` is Clawdbot**. The wrapper reverse-proxies all traffic (including WebSockets) to the local gateway process.

## Railway deploy instructions (what you’ll publish as a Template)

In Railway Template Composer:

1) Create a new template from this GitHub repo.
2) Add a **Volume** mounted at `/data`.
3) Set the following variables:

Required:
- `SETUP_PASSWORD` — user-provided password to access `/setup`

Recommended:
- `CLAWDBOT_STATE_DIR=/data/.clawdbot`
- `CLAWDBOT_WORKSPACE_DIR=/data/workspace`

Optional:
- `CLAWDBOT_GATEWAY_TOKEN` — if not set, the wrapper generates one (not ideal). In a template, set it using a generated secret.

Notes:
- This template pins Clawdbot to a known-good version by default via Docker build arg `CLAWDBOT_VERSION`.

4) Enable **Public Networking** (HTTP). Railway will assign a domain.
5) Deploy.

Then:
- Visit `https://<your-app>.up.railway.app/setup`
- Complete setup
- Visit `https://<your-app>.up.railway.app/` and `/clawdbot`

## Getting chat tokens (so you don’t have to scramble)

### Telegram bot token
1) Open Telegram and message **@BotFather**
2) Run `/newbot` and follow the prompts
3) BotFather will give you a token that looks like: `123456789:AA...`
4) Paste that token into `/setup`

### Discord bot token
1) Go to the Discord Developer Portal: https://discord.com/developers/applications
2) **New Application** → pick a name
3) Open the **Bot** tab → **Add Bot**
4) Copy the **Bot Token** and paste it into `/setup`
5) Invite the bot to your server (OAuth2 URL Generator → scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`; then choose permissions)

## Local smoke test

```bash
docker build -t clawdbot-railway-template .

docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -e PORT=8080 \
  -e SETUP_PASSWORD=test \
  -e CLAWDBOT_STATE_DIR=/data/.clawdbot \
  -e CLAWDBOT_WORKSPACE_DIR=/data/workspace \
  -v $(pwd)/.tmpdata:/data \
  clawdbot-railway-template

# open http://localhost:8080/setup (password: test)
```

Commit message:

feat: migrate template from clawdbot to openclaw

README.md, after:

# OpenClaw Railway Template (1‑click deploy)

This repo packages **OpenClaw** for Railway with a small **/setup** web wizard so users can deploy and onboard **without running any commands**.

## What you get

- **OpenClaw Gateway + Control UI** (served at `/` and `/openclaw`)
- A friendly **Setup Wizard** at `/setup` (protected by a password)
- Persistent state via **Railway Volume** (so config/credentials/memory survive redeploys)
- One-click **Export backup** (so users can migrate off Railway later)

## How it works (high level)

- The container runs a wrapper web server.
- The wrapper protects `/setup` with `SETUP_PASSWORD`.
- During setup, the wrapper runs `openclaw onboard --non-interactive ...` inside the container, writes state to the volume, and then starts the gateway.
- After setup, **`/` is OpenClaw**. The wrapper reverse-proxies all traffic (including WebSockets) to the local gateway process.

## Railway deploy instructions (what you’ll publish as a Template)

In Railway Template Composer:

1) Create a new template from this GitHub repo.
2) Add a **Volume** mounted at `/data`.
3) Set the following variables:

Required:
- `SETUP_PASSWORD` — user-provided password to access `/setup`

Recommended:
- `OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR=/data/.openclaw`
- `OPENCLAW_WORKSPACE_DIR=/data/workspace`

Optional:
- `OPENCLAW_GATEWAY_TOKEN` — if not set, the wrapper generates one (not ideal). In a template, set it using a generated secret.

Notes:
- This template pins OpenClaw to a known-good version by default via Docker build arg `OPENCLAW_GIT_REF`.

4) Enable **Public Networking** (HTTP). Railway will assign a domain.
5) Deploy.

Then:
- Visit `https://<your-app>.up.railway.app/setup`
- Complete setup
- Visit `https://<your-app>.up.railway.app/` and `/openclaw`

## Getting chat tokens (so you don’t have to scramble)

### Telegram bot token
1) Open Telegram and message **@BotFather**
2) Run `/newbot` and follow the prompts
3) BotFather will give you a token that looks like: `123456789:AA...`
4) Paste that token into `/setup`

### Discord bot token
1) Go to the Discord Developer Portal: https://discord.com/developers/applications
2) **New Application** → pick a name
3) Open the **Bot** tab → **Add Bot**
4) Copy the **Bot Token** and paste it into `/setup`
5) Invite the bot to your server (OAuth2 URL Generator → scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`; then choose permissions)

## Local smoke test

```bash
docker build -t openclaw-railway-template .

docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -e PORT=8080 \
  -e SETUP_PASSWORD=test \
  -e OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR=/data/.openclaw \
  -e OPENCLAW_WORKSPACE_DIR=/data/workspace \
  -v $(pwd)/.tmpdata:/data \
  openclaw-railway-template

# open http://localhost:8080/setup (password: test)
```
